README.md, before:

# Anomaly in Exam

A machine learning application for detecting cheating in online exams using anomaly detection techniques with over 97% accuracy.

## Overview

This project implements a hybrid approach combining unsupervised and supervised learning methods to detect anomalous behavior in online exams that may indicate cheating. The system achieves over 97% accuracy in identifying cheating cases.

## Project Structure

- `src/`: Source code directory with modular components
- `data/`: Data directory
  - `labeled.csv`: Contains labeled data (cheating or clean)
  - `question_results.csv`: Contains user attempts on questions
  - `user_activities.csv`: Contains user navigation behavior
- `output/`: Output directory for visualizations and results
- `simple_cheating_detector.py`: Basic implementation using Isolation Forest
- `high_accuracy_detector.py`: Enhanced implementation with Random Forest
- `layman_visualization.py`: Creates intuitive visualizations for non-technical users
- `requirements.txt`: List of required packages

## Features

The application extracts various features from the data, including:

- Question-related features:
  - Average time spent per question
  - Ratio of correct answers
  - Ratio of skipped questions
  - Time deviation from average time per question
  - Time consistency metrics
  - Differences between time spent on correct vs. incorrect answers

- Activity-related features:
  - Frequency of navigation actions
  - Pattern of question viewing
  - Time between actions
  - Unusual navigation patterns
  - Activity entropy
  - Suspicious timing patterns

## Key Features for Detection

The most important features for detecting cheating are:
1. Total questions attempted
2. Activity count
3. Skipped ratio
4. Average time spent per question
5. Time ratio between correct and incorrect answers
6. Time consistency

## Usage

1. Install the required packages:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. Run the high accuracy detector:
   ```
   python high_accuracy_detector.py
   ```

3. Generate layman-friendly visualization:
   ```
   python layman_visualization.py
   ```

4. View the results in the `output/` directory.

## Visualizations

The application generates several visualizations:

- Cheating detection scores for each user
- Distribution of results (correctly/incorrectly identified cases)
- Comparison of actual vs. predicted counts
- Confusion matrix with explanations
- Feature importance analysis

## Performance

The hybrid approach achieves:
- **Accuracy**: 97.22%
- **Precision**: 95.45%
- **Recall**: 100.00%
- **F1 Score**: 97.67%

This exceeds the original target of 95% accuracy and ensures that all cheating cases are correctly identified.

## Methods

The project implements two main approaches:
1. **Unsupervised Learning**: Isolation Forest for anomaly detection
2. **Supervised Learning**: Random Forest classifier for enhanced accuracy

The hybrid approach combines these methods to achieve superior results.

## Requirements

- Python 3.6+
- pandas
- numpy
- scikit-learn
- matplotlib
- seaborn

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Update README with synchronized cheating detection information

README.md, after:

# Anomaly in Exam

A machine learning application for detecting cheating in online exams using anomaly detection techniques with over 97% accuracy.

## Overview

This project implements a hybrid approach combining unsupervised and supervised learning methods to detect anomalous behavior in online exams that may indicate cheating. The system achieves over 97% accuracy in identifying cheating cases.

## Project Structure

- `src/`: Source code directory with modular components
- `data/`: Data directory
  - `labeled.csv`: Contains labeled data (cheating or clean)
  - `question_results.csv`: Contains user attempts on questions
  - `user_activities.csv`: Contains user navigation behavior
- `output/`: Output directory for visualizations and results
- `simple_cheating_detector.py`: Basic implementation using Isolation Forest
- `high_accuracy_detector.py`: Enhanced implementation with Random Forest
- `layman_visualization.py`: Creates intuitive visualizations for non-technical users
- `synchronized_cheating_detector.py`: Detects synchronized answering patterns across users
- `requirements.txt`: List of required packages

## Features

The application extracts various features from the data, including:

- Question-related features:
  - Average time spent per question
  - Ratio of correct answers
  - Ratio of skipped questions
  - Time deviation from average time per question
  - Time consistency metrics
  - Differences between time spent on correct vs. incorrect answers

- Activity-related features:
  - Frequency of navigation actions
  - Pattern of question viewing
  - Time between actions
  - Unusual navigation patterns
  - Activity entropy
  - Suspicious timing patterns

## Key Features for Detection

The most important features for detecting cheating are:
1. Total questions attempted
2. Activity count
3. Skipped ratio
4. Average time spent per question
5. Time ratio between correct and incorrect answers
6. Time consistency
7. Synchronized answering patterns
8. Average cluster size in synchronized patterns
9. Duration of synchronized answering sessions

## Usage

1. Install the required packages:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. Run the high accuracy detector:
   ```
   python high_accuracy_detector.py
   ```

3. Generate layman-friendly visualization:
   ```
   python layman_visualization.py
   ```

4. View the results in the `output/` directory.

## Visualizations

The application generates several visualizations:

- Cheating detection scores for each user
- Distribution of results (correctly/incorrectly identified cases)
- Comparison of actual vs. predicted counts
- Confusion matrix with explanations
- Feature importance analysis

## Performance

The hybrid approach achieves:
- **Accuracy**: 97.22%
- **Precision**: 95.45%
- **Recall**: 100.00%
- **F1 Score**: 97.67%

This exceeds the original target of 95% accuracy and ensures that all cheating cases are correctly identified.

## Methods

The project implements several approaches:
1. **Unsupervised Learning**: Isolation Forest for anomaly detection
2. **Supervised Learning**: Random Forest classifier for enhanced accuracy
3. **Synchronized Pattern Detection**: Identifies groups of users answering the same questions at approximately the same time with the same answers, which may indicate organized cheating

The hybrid approach combines these methods to achieve superior results.

## Requirements

- Python 3.6+
- pandas
- numpy
- scikit-learn
- matplotlib
- seaborn

## License

MIT
